{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2868
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Menlo-Regular;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red221\green221\blue221;\red0\green0\blue0;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c89412\c89412\c89412;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww11520\viewh8400\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf2 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2   ```yaml\
   ---\
   title: "Your Post Title"\
   description: "Short summary for the blog index (1-2 sentences)."\
   date: 2026-03-18\
   ---\
   ```\
\
Preface\
\
> Why Most People Never Discover Their Purpose\
\
Most people believe they are searching for purpose.\
\
In reality, they are searching for relief.\
\
Relief from confusion.\
Relief from pain.\
Relief from the feeling that life is happening to them rather than through them.\
\
Over the course of my life, and especially over more than two decades inside the federal prison system, I have watched thousands of people wrestle with the same invisible struggle. Different backgrounds. Different crimes. Different levels of education. Different opportunities. Yet underneath all of it, the same questions echo:\
\
Why am I here?\
What am I supposed to be doing with my life?\
Why does it feel like I keep ending up in the same place, no matter how hard I try to change?\
\
The answer is rarely a lack of intelligence.\
It is rarely a lack of effort.\
It is almost never a lack of talent.\
\
It is a lack of direction.\
\
And direction does not come from motivation, discipline, or willpower alone. Direction comes from understanding who is in charge inside you and why you are choosing what you choose.\
\
Most people never discover their purpose because they are never taught how purpose actually works.\
\
They are taught to chase success, not alignment.\
They are taught to seek approval, not truth.\
They are taught to react to circumstances, not to respond from principle.\
\
And when life goes wrong, as it eventually does, they assume something is wrong with them.\
\
This conversation exists to correct that misunderstanding.\
\
> The Two Invisible Forces Running Every Life\
\
Every human being is governed by two internal forces. They go by many names across cultures, faiths, and philosophies, but I recognize them as Ego and Spirit.\
\
Ego is not evil. It is protective. It is the part of us that learned to survive, adapt, and defend itself in a world that can be painful and unpredictable. Ego seeks control, certainty, validation, and safety.\
\
Spirit is not mystical. It is authoritative. It is the part of us that knows who we are beneath fear, beyond conditioning, and above circumstance. Spirit seeks alignment, meaning, contribution, and truth.\
\
Every thought you think.\
Every emotion you feel.\
Every action you take.\
\
They all originate from one of these two sources.\
\
Most people do not fail because they are weak. They fail because they are unaware of which source is driving their decisions.\
\
When Ego is in control, life becomes reactive. Goals become vague. Motivation fades. Self-esteem erodes. People drift, sabotage themselves, or repeat patterns they swore they would never repeat again.\
\
When Spirit is in authority, life becomes directional. Choices become intentional. Effort has meaning. Even setbacks become teachers rather than verdicts.\
\
Purpose does not eliminate hardship.\
Purpose gives hardship meaning.\
\
> Why This Matters More Than Ever\
\
We live in a time of constant noise. Opinions are loud. Distractions are endless. Information is abundant, but wisdom is scarce.\
\
People are encouraged to feel their way through life rather than understand themselves. They're told to "follow their passion" without ever being taught how to distinguish passion from impulse, or calling from ego-driven desire.\
\
Inside prison walls, I saw the consequences of this confusion magnified. Men who were not stupid. Men who were not incapable. Men who simply never learned how to pause, examine their internal world, and choose from a higher place.\
\
Outside prison walls, the same pattern plays out, just with better lighting and fewer bars.\
\
This conversation is being provided for both.\
\
Because the root causes of a misdirected life do not change based on geography or freedom status. They change only when awareness changes.\
\
> What This Conversation Will Help You Do\
\
This is not a motivational blog. Motivation fades.\
\
This is not a religious blog in the narrow sense, though it is deeply faith-forward. Faith, as you will see, is not blind belief; it is alignment with truth and action in spite of fear.\
\
This is a map.\
\
It will help you:\
\
- Understand how thoughts become emotions, emotions become actions, and actions become life outcomes\
- Identify whether Ego or Spirit is currently in authority within you\
- Discover your purpose through alignment, not guesswork\
- Structure your life so that progress becomes repeatable\
- Build real confidence through evidence, not hype\
- Finish what you start and honor who you are becoming\
\
Purpose is not something you stumble upon.\
Purpose is something that is revealed when the noise quiets and the truth is allowed to speak.\
\
> Before We Begin\
\
You do not need to be perfect to live a purposeful life.\
You do not need a clean past.\
You do not need permission from anyone else.\
\
You only need honesty, humility, and the willingness to look inward before you look outward.\
\
Every day, you are already choosing a path whether you realize it or not.\
\
This conversation will help you learn how to choose deliberately. And I do mean conversation. We're in this together. We learn from each other. We build each other up. \
\
Ask questions. Give comments. Share with others. We are a community growing together.\
\
}